>> Zac Gordon: With just this little bit
of code, you could build a whole view app
right here, and you could have it hooking
in to all the stuff that you need.
So if you ever wanted to
create a WordPress plugin and
power the whole thing with JavaScript,
it's just these few lines that will kick
everything off, and then it's all
in the API to do whatever you want.
Okay, so we'll show that stuff later,
but we needed to get this far.
Any questions about difference
between working with a plug in and
working with a theme in terms
of enqueuing JavaScript?
Now got it!
See I told you it's gonna
become second nature.
How many people don't know what WP and
script does at this point?
Success, we have learned
how to enqueue JavaScript.
We're bored with it, we want to move on.
So let's get weird and
look at some AJAX in WordPress and
[COUGH] I have to warn you that AJAX
is a little weird in WordPress.
And if you've ever worked with AJAX and
PHP, the way it usually works is you
have Some JavaScript that's going to
make a call off a certain PHP file.
The PHP file is going to run some code and
then return some code back that
the AJAX request will wait for.
Now you can make really
simple AJAX request,
like hey just go to my homepage and
scrape all the data and give it to me.
And then I will do something with it.
But when I talk about
AJAX in this context,
I'm really talking about AJAX
that is interacting somehow.
With the WordPress backend and code so
like in the AJAX example we're gonna do
you click a button and it likes something
and adds it to the database and
then gives you back the updated value and
that you could update on your site.
Okay, so when I say AJAX and WordPress I
don't mean [COUGH] from a purely
technical level, anything that's
sending out an HML HTTP request.
I'm talking about specifically doing
something that's gonna interact with
the database or the code in WordPress that
we kind of want to have protected and
there's a few extra steps
along the way there.
So the first thing we
have to do is inside of
our PHP remember how we could pass in
stuff through our localized script?
We're going to be passing in a Nonce and
URL.
[COUGH] A Nonce is a number used only
once and it's a unique string and
WordPress will generate it for us when
the page is loaded and then if we make any
AJAX requests it's going to look for
that exact same string back to verify.
So if somebody,
let's say we know the URL in WordPress,
if we want to ping it and make a request
from some other site on to our's.
If we don't have that Nonce
attached to it it will refuse it so
this is one of the validation methods that
WordPress uses and very helpful for us.
[COUGH] Also the URL, our code that we're
gonna run is in our functions.php file for
themes, so where even if it's in a plugin,
how do you get that URL.
Do you type in
site.com/wp-contents/plugins/mycontmyplug-
ins/assetsjsteams?
No, we have to root every single AJAX
call in WordPress goes to a single URL.
And then, WordPress mechanics behind
the scenes figures out what function and
where should process that call.
So we're passing a unique Nonce
every time, and the exact same URL.
Okay, so all AJAX requests are basically
gonna get the same URL but
a different Nonce each time.
Then in our JavaScript we need to
actually make that call right?
So jQuery is pretty easy for this.
There's native fetch,
there is Axel which will look at as well.
There's a lot of different way.
Hey, you could even use
a straight up on HTTP request.
I wouldn't recommend it but
it's all possible.
But you have to pass this Nonce and
the URL back in a very specific ways.
So that's the part I wanna show you and
that's where we're gonna be copying and
pasting as hey, right here in our AJAX
call, we won't type out the whole thing.
I'm gonna assume at this point,
you've probably seen a jQuery
AJAX calling your life.
So it won't leave you
shaking in your boots, and
it's really just figuring out how
to pass the Nonce and the URL.
So the AJAX call is made into WordPress,
then we need to pass
it to the right place, so
there's some Hooks involved.
And then we have the PHP
function that actually processes,
gets the code, and gives us back the data,
and then JavaScript on the other end.
So step one, not normal in all AJAX.
Step two, maybe it's normal,
maybe it's not,
depending on security methods,
but not always.
Three, definitely not normal, right?
We don't normally build a PHP app
that interjects all AJAX requests and
filters and redirects them on their own,
but WordPress will.
And step four is completely normal, right?
So steps two and four and
five you have to have every time.
So we're just adding in this extra
hook and the passing out the Nounce.
Luckily this is mostly stuff
that we've done already.